Welcome back in this one we're going to move on from our contrived example and we're going to look at
an example using two real HTP API.
Before we do it's important to note that aero functions aren't the only functions that support async.
I just happened to use an arrow function.
I could also use an S-5 function with the function keyword.
This works as well.
I can save the file and I'm still going to get Jessica has it 100 percent printing down below.
I can also async and ESX object method but I am going to stick with an arrow function here.
Perfect.
Now we're going to leave this file in the dust then we're going to move on to a brand new file for our
real world example.
This one is going to be called currency convert Scott J.
S. as you can probably guess by the name.
We're going to create a currency converter.
So essentially this is just a function that takes three arguments we're going to start off with the
currency code for the currency we're starting with.
In this case let's say I have U.S. dollars.
Then it's the currency code we're trying to convert to.
Let's say I'm going up to Canada and I want to see how much my money is worth and the amount we want
to convert by.
So this is essentially asking for the Canadian equivalent of 23 US dollars and we're going to able to
use any code we want in any value we want now to actually get all that information.
We are going to be using two API and then the end of the day we're going to have something like this
right here.
We would essentially be saying 23 U.S. dollars is worth let's just go ahead and say twenty eight see
a DS.
Not sure if that's right.
You can spend these in the following countries and then we'll go ahead and list out all of the countries
that actually accept the Canadian dollar.
Now to actually get all this information we will be using this to API.
And I do want to explore those over inside of Crome real quick that will actually install X-post make
their requests and integrate all of that into the currency converter.
The first one we're going to be using is at fixer dot.
Oh this one is going to give us current currency numbers so we're going to able to get those exchange
rates if we go over to the Web site.
They have a great usage page you can click these you are Elle's that's going to show you the exact data
that would come back.
Had you made an HTP request this API and the other one were going to be using the do not require authentication.
So we're going to able to integrate them without too much trouble.
Right here we see the base currency is the euro.
Whoops closed on me and we can see what a euro is worth and other currencies.
So one euro is currently worth one point to 1 9 US dollars or 1.5 1 Five Canadian dollars.
This is the first point that we're going to be using and we're actually going to be using an alternative
down below here.
We can specify the base query parameter that is going to start us out at the currency of our choice.
This is the currency that we're converting from and then we'll get the exchange rate.
So if I want to convert U.S. IDs to Canadian dollars I would get the base USD conversion chart.
I would find this number and I would just multiply 23 by this number or whatever value I was trying
to convert.
So this is API number one.
Let's go ahead and grab this you I'll open it up in the browser and we're going to leave that up.
We'll be coming back to it in just a moment.
The other API that we're going to be using you can find at rest countries dot EU.
This one contains some useful information about countries.
If you go to the all.
Example we can get this you are el we can crack open in the browser and we can see the extensive list
of countries and Country data that the API returns.
Starting off with Afghanistan various things about it.
Top level domains alternative spellings regions lat and long population a lot of really nice information.
It also includes those currency codes.
So we're actually going to be using a different end point.
They support the down below currency endpoint.
This lets you find countries that use a specific currency.
So let's take this you are l and cracked open in the browser.
Here we're using S.O.P.
Let's go ahead and swap that out for you.
S d.
Now there are multiple countries that use the United States dollar.
Here we have American Samoa down below if we scroll way way way down the list we're going to get other
things.
Here we got Zimbabwe for example up above.
We have the United States of America.
That's an obvious one.
Turks and Caicos Islands.
So there are quite a few different places that use the U.S. dollar.
If we swap it out for SEE kind Canada only one they're perfectly fine.
So using these two end points we're going to be able to convert the currency and figure out which countries
support that currency.
We're going to wire all of this up together.
Then I'm going to set you out on your own to actually use a sink a wait to get that information.
Let's go ahead and kick things off over inside of the terminal by shutting things down clearing the
output and installing the necessary dependencies.
I'm going to run NPM in it.
We can just generate a quick package that Jason file using the defaults and now use NPM install X-posts
the current version of Access is 0.16 point 1 and we'll toss on the Save flag that's going to be sure
to say that as a dependency.
And there we go.
Everything is working as expected.
Now we can clear this output and we can actually take advantage of access inside of our application.
So let's kick things off with the first one we're going to go ahead and set up a function that makes
the call to fix her and gets the exchange rate to do that over inside of Adam.
We're going to kick things off by creating a contest.
X is going to require access and then we're going to make a concert for one of our two functions.
This is for the first point get exchange rate now get exchange rate is going to take two pieces of information
the from currency code and the two currency code.
So if I was going to do this example out of USD here and see a D here this is going to be a function
and all we're going to do is use axes.
That's X-ers dot get.
And we're going to pass in and that you are l and I just copied it from the browser.
Now we want to set the base equal to whatever currency we're coming from.
So I can go ahead and use that template string swapping out the static base value for a dynamic one
accessing from then we're going to use that real quick and we're going to use that here to just manipulate
the value.
So this is going to return the promise from X-post with a bunch of information about the h t t p request
the color of get exchange rate does not care about that.
They shouldn't even know that an HTP request was made.
All they need back is a number.
So that is exactly what we're going to give them right here.
We're going to have access to response
and on the response we're going to able to get that currency code.
So we're going to return response dot data.
This gets us into the adjacent object.
Now in here we have a rates object which is key value pairs where the key is the currency.
So we do want to access rates and you want to get the rate for whatever the two variable is.
So in this case we would have us these two Canadian dollars we would call this you are l with USD and
we would get this value back one point 3 5 0 8.
That is the exact value that we're going to return right here.
Let's go ahead and test this out down below get exchange rate.
I'm going to pass in U.S. IDs to Canadian dollars.
Then we'll get our rate back and we can live it out.
Cancel that log rate.
I'm going to go ahead and save this in the background inside of the terminal.
We can start up gnomon once again.
Gnomon.
We're going to run the currency convert file right here you can see cannot read propertied that of undefine.
That's my fault.
I need to return this right here.
Perfect.
Now I can go back and not could film that but that was just a quick typo.
So essentially we had a promise but we weren't returning it which means we were not able to chain on
down below by returning the promise.
We are able to change things on getting the rate and printing it right here.
We get that value 1 point 3 5 0 8 is the current currency exchange rate.
I could put it you are in here and I could figure out what the euro exchange rate is zero point 8 9
1 3 5.
So there we go.
We got our first one all knocked out.
Now the other one that were going to create real quick is going to be get countries get countries is
going to get a list of countries just their names and we're going to get it by currency code.
This one just like the one up above is also going to return a promise from X CEOs dot get and then you
are out.
We want to get lives over in the browser so right here we have our new Arel we have the spot where we're
going to dump our currency code so we can knock that out.
It's going to be a template Szeryng and we're going to get rid of CJD and we are going to inject whatever
the currency code argument is now at this point once again.
Yes we do want to do a little manipulation to the data so I could go ahead and use then
and right here I can go ahead and access the response
what I want to do with the response.
I just want to loop over it.
I want to figure out all the countries that support my currency and I want to return an array.
Now you know that we're going to get all those countries back right.
So for CJD we have an array the single object inside of it for you SD.
We have an array with multiple objects inside of it.
So we're going to take this array of objects and we're going to convert it to an array of string.
So we would start off with America Samoa right here to do that.
We're just going to use map back inside of atom.
We can go ahead and knock this out real quick by returning response data which is an array which means
it has access to that map method.
We're then going to use map each individual item is going to be a country.
Each country has a name property so we can return country dotted name giving us an array of country
names that support the currency.
In this case we can simplify that by implicitly returning country dot name.
Now go ahead and test that out right here.
Get countries we we're going to get countries back
and we're going to dump countries to the screen and we only provide a single argument.
So if we save this and check things out over in the terminal we should see exactly what comes back here.
We have a list of all of the countries that we can use that currency in this case the U.S. dollar.
We could go over to EQR to see which countries support that.
If we save the file We're going to get that list back in just a moment.
Here we have all of the countries that support it.
Everything from Belgium all the way down to Zimbabwe.
Spain all those countries are included.
Next up Cod cod.
You should just have that one.
Canada doesn't need Shop-Rite there.
So this point we have all the data we need to actually get things done.
So together we're going to build the equivalent of this function over and at Promises and you're going
to be building out the async one over here.
Let's go ahead and get started.
Konst convert currency.
I was going to be the function will be building.
It's the one that you'll eventually make a sink but for now we'll leave it as a regular era function.
We're going to get the currency code that we're converting from the one we're converting to.
And the amount we're looking to convert inside of here we can kick things off by getting those countries.
I'm going to return get countries I get a call that with the currency that we're converting to and then
we can tack on then and we are going to get the countries list back.
Perfect.
Next up we're going to return a call to get exchange rates get exchange rate passing in from and to.
And we're going to get that back as a promise as well which means we can tack on another then call here.
We're going to get that rate
now down below inside of this one.
We can go ahead and actually calculate all of the stuff we're going to calculate in this case we're
going to generate that long string I was talking about.
Let's first start off by creating a concert.
This concert will be called exchanged amount and we're going to do is take the amount the user passed
in and multiply it by the exchange rate.
So in this case we would successfully convert U.S. dollars from Canadian dollars now.
And down below we can go ahead and start working on that string.
We're going to return the template string and inside of here we're going to do quite a few things.
So first off we're going to start off with the amount the amount in the currency you're coming from
is worth then we're going to put the amount in the currency you're going to that's the exchanged amount
right here.
And then we'll toss in too.
So this is part one we can actually go ahead and test this out before even moving on down below.
I'm going to switch the get countries call over to a convert currency call and we're going to go ahead
and convert Canadian dollars over to U.S. dollars and let's go ahead and convert 100 of those.
Now we're in the anti-status back as opposed to actually getting back the countries list and we can
go ahead and save currency convert and see what happens over inside of the terminal over here.
We get 100 Canadian dollars is worth seventy three point nine for seven U.S. dollars.
And this is a great first step.
Now we're also going to tack on that countries list which we do not have access to in this function.
So we can go through the same step we used last time will create 10 countries up above.
We can make a new variable called countries and we'll set countries equal to 10 countries right here
excellent.
Now we'll be able to access those countries and do something with them.
What are we going to do.
We're just going to join them altogether separated by a comma to create that nice list that will be
the currency that we're talking about the two currency can be used in the following countries.
Right here we had a call in and then we will interpolate the following.
So we're going to take all those countries.
We're going to take that in array and we're going to convert it over to a string using join what we
want to put between all of them.
We're going to put a comma and a space we're going to create a comma separated list of countries that
that currency can be used in.
Now we can go ahead and save currency convert and see what happens over inside a gnomon when things
restart a hundred Canadian dollars is worth 73 U.S. dollars.
U.S. dollar can be used in the following countries.
Let's say you got a typo.
CA should be.
Can we have a list of all the countries we can use it in.
Let's go ahead and test that a different variation.
Let's go ahead and switch us dollars over to Canadian dollars.
This time around we're going to get different output.
We can see 100 U.S. dollars is worth 135 Canadian dollars the Canadian dollar can be used in the following
countries.
In this case just Canada.
But everything is working as expected.
The problem is we're using promise changing in order to get everything done.
So your job's going to convert this over to a sink a wait and you're going to do that right here.
Create
convert currency alt as a sink function.
So just like we did over inside an app promises you're going to create an async function then you're
going to fetch both pieces of data using a weight get countries and erate using a weight and are two
functions so you're going to await both of these promises and then you're going to store that value
in some variable.
You can create a country's variable and a rate variable.
Finally you'll be able to take these two lines and just tack those on at the end that'll calculate the
exchanged amount and it will return the correct information.
Calculate exchanged amount
return status shrink.
So in the end of the day your job is to fill that out.
And it should just take those four lines.
You have to look at the data one to calculate the exchanged amount and a final one to actually print
things out.
Take a bunch of time to knock this one out.
Feel free to re watch videos.
Feel free to refer to the previous videos to the Web to the code you wrote right here.
You can even take this copy it over and use this as a starting point for building out the function that
you have to build out for this challenge.
Do whatever you need to do in order to get this done and take as much time as necessary.
Now if you can't get it done that's perfectly fine.
As always we're going to go through every single step together.
But do take an honest crack at this one.
Pause the video.
When you're done click play how that one go.
Hopefully you were able to get it done without too much trouble.
We're going to go ahead and kick things off by creating that cost convert currency Allt.
This one is going to be an async function.
So we have to market as such we can then move on to our arguments list which is exactly the same as
the other one from two to mount.
Then we're going to put the arrow and arrow function we're going to open and close our curly braces
and now we can move on to the first thing which is getting the countries and getting the exchange rate
going to start off with countries Konst countries.
Equals we are going to await the promise that comes back from get countries and what countries do we
want to get the ones where the two currency is able to be used.
Then we're going to move on down below to a rate.
So Konst rate in this case we're also trying to await something we're trying to await the promise that
comes back from Get exchange rate.
We're trying to get the exchange rate right here from from end to 2 just like we had up above.
So at this point we have all that data and we can move on to calculating the exchanged amount and returning
the string.
We already built that out.
There's no need to recreate it.
We can just copy both of those lines paste them below and then we go.
Everything is done now down below.
Instead of calling convert currency we're able to call convert currency Allt passing in the exact same
arguments and getting back the status.
The difference is that our function is using a sink a whole lot more readable much easier to work with.
We're going to go ahead and save currency convert that is going to run through the process of getting
all that data converting it and then we're going to go ahead and print the status.
And what do we get in the end of the day.
Over here we get the exact same thing a hundred U.S. dollars is still worth 135 Canadian dollars and
it can still just be used in Canada.
So that is it for the challenge and that is it for the video in the next video.
We're going to talk about a few other places we can use a sink in this example and we're also going
to talk about how we can work with and handle errors.
It's all coming up next.
I'm excited to get to it.
So stay tuned.
I'll see you then.